## Rollouts and Versioning

### 1. Rollouts:

- When you first create a deployment, a rollout is triggered, creating a deployment revision (e.g., Revision 1).
- Any future updates to the deployment (e.g., new container version) trigger a new rollout and create a new revision (e.g., Revision 2).

### 2. Viewing Rollouts:

- Check the rollout status:

```
kubectl rollout status deployment/<deployment-name>
```

- View rollout history and revisions:

```
kubectl rollout history deployment/<deployment-name>
```

## Deployment Strategies

1. Recreate Strategy:

- Process: Destroys all old instances before creating new ones.
- Downside: Causes downtime between destroying old instances and bringing up new ones.

2. Rolling Update Strategy (Default):

- Process: Updates instances one by one, ensuring the application remains available during the upgrade.
- Benefit: Seamless upgrades without downtime.

## Updating a Deployment

- You can update deployments in several ways:

  1. Using a Deployment Definition File:

  ```
  kubectl apply -f deployment-definition.yaml
  ```

  2. Using <code>kubectl</code> set image:

  ```
  kubectl set image deployment/<deployment-name> <container-name>=<new-image>s
  ```

  3. Verify the Update:

  ```
  kubectl rollout status deployment/<deployment-name>s
  ```

## Replica Sets and Updates

- Deployments manage ReplicaSets under the hood.

- Upgrade Process:

  1. A new ReplicaSet is created for the updated deployment.
  2. Pods in the old ReplicaSet are scaled down, while Pods in the new ReplicaSet are scaled up.

- List ReplicaSets:

  ```
  kubectl get replicasets
  ```

## Rolling Back a Deployment

1. Rollback to a previous revision:
   ```
   kubectl rollout undo deployment/<deployment-name>
   ```
2. How It Works:

- The Pods in the new ReplicaSet are destroyed.
- The older ReplicaSet is scaled up to match the desired replica count.

3. Verify Rollback:

- Compare the replica sets before and after the rollback:
  ```
  kubectl get replicasets
  ```

## Command summary

- Create a Deployment:

```
kubectl create -f deployment-definition.yaml
```

- List Deployments:

```
kubectl get deployments
```

- Update Deployment:

  - Using <code>kubectl apply</code>:
    ```
    kubectl apply -f deployment-definition.yaml
    ```
  - using <code>kubectl set image</code>
    ```
    kubectl set image deployment/<deployment-name> <container-name>=<new-image>
    ```

- Check Rollout Status:

```
kubectl rollout status deployment/<deployment-name>
```

- View Rollout History:

```
kubectl rollout history deployment/<deployment-name>
```

- Rollback Deployment:

```
kubectl rollout undo deployment/<deployment-name>
```
