## Authentication in Kubernetes

#### 1. Types of Users Accessing the Cluster

- Humans:
  - Administrators (manage the cluster).
  - Developers (test/deploy applications).
- Robots:
  - Processes, services, or third-party applications needing access.
- End Users:
  - Those accessing applications deployed on the cluster (not managed by Kubernetes; handled by application security).

#### 2. Kubernetes and User Management

- Kubernetes does not natively manage user accounts.
- Instead, it relies on external sources:
  - Static files (e.g., password or token files).
  - Certificates.
  - Third-party identity services (e.g., LDAP, Kerberos).
- Kubernetes can manage service accounts for machine-level access.

#### 3. Authentication via kube-apiserver

- All cluster access goes through the kube-apiserver, which authenticates requests before processing.
- Authentication mechanisms include:
  1. Static Password Files:
     - CSV file with password, username, and user ID.
     - Optional: Add group details.
     - Pass the file to kube-apiserver using the --basic-auth-file option.
  2. Static Token Files:
     - CSV file with token, username, and user ID.
     - Optional: Add group details.
     - Pass the file to kube-apiserver using the --token-auth-file option.
     - Use the token as an authorization header in API requests.
  3. Certificates (covered in later lectures).
  4. Third-Party Protocols:
     - Integration with LDAP, Kerberos, etc.

#### 4. Example: Static Authentication Setup

- Static Password File example:
  ```yaml
  passsword, username, user_id
  mypass, admin, 1001
  ```
  - `--basic-auth-file=<path-to-password-file>` to kube-apiserver option
  - restart the kube-apiserver
- Static Token File example:
  ```yaml
  token, username, user_id
  mytoken, admin, 1001
  ```
  - add `--basic-auth-file=<path-to-password-file>` to kube-apiserver options
  - use the token in API requests as:
    ```yaml
    curl -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" https://<k8s-api-server>
    ```
