## Understanding PVCs

#### Persistent Volumes (PV):

- Set up by administrators as a cluster-wide storage pool.

#### Persistent Volume Claims (PVC):

- Created by users to request storage from the PV pool.

#### Binding Process:

- Kubernetes automatically binds a PVC to a PV that satisfies the request's requirements (e.g., capacity, access modes).
- If no matching PV is available, the PVC remains in a Pending state until a suitable PV is added.

## Key Features

#### 1. One-to-One Binding:

- Each PVC is bound to a single PV.
- Once bound, no other PVC can use the same PV—even if it has unused capacity.

#### 2. Partial Allocation:

- A PVC can request less storage than the total capacity of a PV.
- Any remaining storage in the PV will not be available to other PVCs.

#### 3. Pending State:

- If no matching PV exists, the PVC remains Pending until a suitable PV is added to the cluster.

#### 4. Reclaim Policies:

- Controls what happens to a PV when its PVC is deleted:
  - Retain (default): Keeps the PV until manually deleted.
  - Delete: Automatically deletes the PV along with its storage.
  - Recycle: Cleans the PV for reuse by other PVCs.

## PVC Definition Example

#### Persistent Volume Claim YAML

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: myclaim
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 500Mi
```

#### Persistent Volume YAML

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: pv-vol1
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  capacity:
    storage: 1Gi
  awsElasticBlockStore:
    volumeID: <volume-id>
    fsType: ext4
```

## Using PVCs in Pods

- Once you create a PVC use it in a POD definition file by specifying the PVC claim name under persistentVolumeClaim section in the volumes section like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mypod
spec:
  containers:
    - name: myfrontend
      image: nginx
      volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: "/var/www/html"
          name: mypd
  volumes:
    - name: mypd
      persistentVolumeClaim:
        claimName: myclaim
```

- The same is true for ReplicaSets or Deployments. Add this to the pod template section of a Deployment on ReplicaSet.
